# SysRevAnalysis
An Examination of Systematic Reviews in the Engineering Literature
Paper submitted for ASEE 2020
Systematic reviews are a well-established method of research synthesis in medicine and the clinical sciences. Their use in other disciplines has been growing, especially in areas that collaborate with the health sciences. At the authors’ institution, requests for help with systematic reviews have become more frequent across several non-health-science fields. This study explores the use of systematic reviews in the engineering literature, and the need for engineering librarians to be familiar with the conventions of this methodology. This study seeks to answer three questions: 1) are systematic reviews being published in the engineering literature more frequently? 2) is this methodology more prevalent in certain engineering disciplines than in others? and 3) do systematic reviews see greater use than other types of papers? First, a Chow test is performed to confirm the authors’ impression that the use of this methodology has increased beyond the rate of increase in publications overall. Next, bibliographic records from several abstracting and indexing databases are analyzed to identify the subject areas within engineering in which research synthesis techniques are most prevalent. Citation counts are also analyzed to determine whether systematic reviews are more likely to be used than other papers in the same subject areas, as has been shown to occur in some non-engineering disciplines. Finally, options for librarians to support this type of research synthesis are discussed, such as building familiarity with tools such as Rayyan and Covidence, offering expert search guidance through instruction and consultation, to co-authorship. 
